Add Copilot instructions (#1195)
grafana/writers-toolkit: .github/instructions/writers-toolkit.instructions.md

```markdown
## Heading

## Sub heading
```

Add a blank line after headings, for example:

```markdown
## Heading

Copy after the heading and a blank line.
```

The immediate copy after a heading should introduce and overview what's covered in the section.

Start articles with an introduction that covers the goal of the article, example goals:

- Learn concepts
- Set up or install something
- Configure something
- Use a product to solve a business problem
- Troubleshoot a problem
- Integrate with other software or systems
- Migrate from one thing to another
- Refer to APIs or reference documentation

Follow the goal with a list of prerequisites, for example:

```markdown
Before you begin ensure you have the following:

- <PREREQUISITE 1>
- <PREREQUISITE 2>
- ...
```

Suggest and link to next steps and related resources at the end of the article,
for example:

- Learn more about A, B, C
- Configure X
- Use X to achieve Y
- Use X to achieve Z
- Project homepage or documentation
- Project repository (for example, GitHub, GitLab)
- Project package (for example, pip or NPM)

You don't need to use the "Refer to" syntax for next steps,

> use the list time text for the link text.

Reviewer: I have definitely added a "Next steps" section in some pages, but I don't think all pages need this. Maybe we can skip this instruction?

> use the list time text for the link text.

Reviewer 2: We can add a condition at the start, "If asked to add next steps do so as follows..." 

I find next steps useful as I can be specific about where you are in a specific journey rather than leaving it up to the Related Content suggestions.

## Style

Write simple copy.

Write short sentences and paragraphs.

Use short words whenever possible, for example:

- use "use" and not "utilize"
- use "use" and not "make use of"

Always use contractions over multiple words, for example:

- use "it's" and not "it is"
- use "isn't" and not "is not"
- use "that's" and not "that is"
- use "you're" and not "you are"
- use "don't" and not "do not"

Don't use filler words or phrases, for example:

- "there is"
- "there are"
- "in order to"
- "it is important to"
- "keep in mind"

In most cases, use verbs and nouns without adverbs or adjectives.
You may use minimal adverbs and adjectives when introducing a Grafana Labs product.

Don't use figures of speech.

Never use buzzwords, jargon, or cliches.

Never use cultural references or charged language.

## Tense

Write in present simple tense.

Avoid present continuous tense.

Only write in future tense to show future actions.

## Voice

Always write in an active voice.

Never write in a passive voice.

## Perspective

Address users as "you".

Don't use first person perspective.

> ## Word list

Reviewer 2: We can add more. I find if we're using best practices it tends to use that too. The approach I take is if an LLM repeatedly makes a change I don't want I add a rule. I like to keep the rules short and manageable. I added specific instructions for master/slave and blacklist/whitelist as I don't want those to sneak in.

Use two asterisks to bold text, for example `**bold**`.

Use one underscore to emphasize copy, for example `_italics_`.

For UI elements and product features that aren't product names,
use sentence case as they appear in the UI, for example:

- Click **Submit**. (If "Submit" is the exact text on the button)
- Navigate to the **User settings** page. (If "User settings" is the title/label)
- Configure the **alerting rules**. (General concept)
- Open **Explore** in Grafana. (If "Explore" is the branded name of that section)

Avoid using words created for UI features when possible, for example

- In your Grafana Cloud stack, click **Connections**. (correct)
- In your Grafana Cloud stack, click the **Connections** button. (wrong)

## Lists

Write complete sentences for lists, for example:

- Works with all languages and frameworks (correct)
- all languages and frameworks (wrong)

Always use dashes for unordered lists, for example

```markdown
- List item 1
- List item 2
- List item 3
```

Never use asterisks for unordered lists, for example:

```markdown
* List item 1 (wrong)
* List item 2 (wrong)
* List item 3 (wrong)
```

> Never use full stops at the end of unordered list items, for example:

Reviewer 2: Ok we can update it with this condition.

> Never use full stops at the end of unordered list items, for example:

Author: ```suggestion
Use full stops at the end of list items if the item is a full sentence, otherwise, omit it.```

```markdown
- Works with all languages and frameworks (correct)
- Works with all languages and frameworks (wrong)
```

Always start every ordered list item with 1, for example:

```markdown
1. Ordered list item 1.
1. Ordered list item 2.
1. Ordered list item 3.
```

Never increment the numbers for ordered list items, for example:

```markdown
1. Ordered list item 1. (wrong)
2. Ordered list item 2. (wrong)
3. Ordered list item 3. (wrong)
```

Always start the next list item immediately on the next line, for example:

```markdown
- List item 1
- List item 2
- List item 3
```

Never use new lines between list items, for example:

```markdown
- List item 1

- List item 2 (wrong)

- List item 3 (wrong)

> ```

Reviewer 2: I added this instruction because some LLMs were defaulting to loose lists where most of the time we want tight lists.

> ```

Author: I'm not sure we're super fussed about the distinction between the two when it comes to outputs, and to be honest I'm not even sure what the default should be :D I'm not sure defaulting to loose lists is a bad thing?

I was mostly worried that this instruction will prevent the LLM from producing multi-paragraph lists where it makes sense.

```

## Images

Always include descriptive alt text for images.
The alt text should convey the essential information or purpose of the image.
Avoid redundant phrases like "Image of..." or "Picture of...".

For example:

- Instead of `![Diagram of system](diagram.png)`
- Use `![Architecture diagram showing data flow from client applications, through a load balancer, to backend services.](architecture-data-flow.png)`

## Code

Use single code backticks \` for:

- user input
- placeholders in Markdown, for example _`<PLACEHOLDER_NAME>`_
- files and directories, for example `/opt/file.md`
- source code keywords and identifiers,
  for example variables, function and class names
- configuration options and values, for example `PORT` and `80`
- status codes, for example `404`

Use triple code backticks followed by the syntax for code blocks, for example:

```javascript
console.log("Hello World!");
```

Always introduce each code blocks with a short description.
End the introduction with a colon if the code sample follows it, for example:

```markdown
The code sample outputs "Hello World!" to the browser console:

<CODE_BLOCK>
```

Use descriptive placeholder names in code samples.

> Use uppercase letters with underscores to separate words in placeholders,

Reviewer: I'd keep the underscore-separated instruction. We're not explicit about it in our guide, but I believe that's the case for Google's style guide.

## CLI commands

When presenting CLI commands and their output,
introduce the command with a brief explanation of its purpose.
Clearly distinguish the command from its output.

For commands, use `sh` to specify the code block language.

For output, use a generic specifier like `text`, `console`,
or `json`/`yaml` if the output is structured.

For example:

````markdown
To list all running pods in the `default` namespace, use the following command:

```sh
kubectl get pods --namespace default
```
````

The output resembles the following:

```text
NAME                               READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
my-app-deployment-7fdb6c5f65-abcde   1/1     Running   0          2d1h
another-service-pod-xyz123           2/2     Running   0          5h30m
```

## Configuration table

Use Markdown tables to document configuration, including:

- placeholders
- parameters
- YAML/JSON configuration
- environment variables

Add columns for "Option", "Summary", "Required", "Type", "Values", "Default"
in that order.

Use the following values for option:

- YAML/JSON, code, or parameter field if one exists for that configuration
- Environment variable field if one exists for that configuration

> - If there is a YAML and Environment variable option separate them with `<br>`

Author: Yeah, you should use whatever semantic elements make sense. `<p>` tags for paragraphs, `<ul>` or `<ol>` for lists, etc.. `<br>`tags aren't very kind in terms of accessibility for screen readers and other devices.

That being said, I think that multiple columns is more even more semantically correct for representing the information, if we need to tweak the presentation, that's something we should do in styling.

> - If there is a YAML and Environment variable option separate them with `<br>`

Author: ```suggestion
- Use semantic HTML inside table cells for multiple paragraphs or list items.
```
